Instructor: Now that we’ve
learned about strings,
beat strings, and EarSketch's
makeBeat() function,
let's go ahead and write
a script that makes music
using all of these ideas.
Starts in the usual way
with init() and setTempo(),
and next we're going
to define some variables.
First, let's define
some variables
for the sounds that we're
gonna use in the script.
So I'll call the first one
"synth," and I'll look for it
in the sound browser
the same way I usually do—
either searching through
the list by genre or artist,
or in this case, I'm gonna
look for a filter chord sound
that I know is in there
that I really want.
[synth chords]
So I'll paste that in—
that's my first sound.
Now for the second sound,
the cymbal sound,
I'm going to do this
in a slightly different way.
I'm going to look for
a special kind of sound
in the EarSketch
sound library
called a "one-shot sound file."
All the sounds
we've been using up to now
have been loops.
They last one or two
or three or four measures.
But one-shot sound file
is just a single hit,
like a single hit of a drum
or of a cymbal
or something like that.
It doesn't repeat.
It doesn't last
a whole measure.
It’s just a single note.
And these can be especially
good to use with
the makeBeat() function
when you're trying
to build rhythms.
When you're trying
to build up drum patterns
and things like that.
So they're located in
a special place inside
of the EarSketch sound library.
If we go to the artist filter
here and pick “MAKEBEAT,”
you'll find all the
one-shot sound files here.
So if I play the clap,
I simply get one clap.
[single clap sound]
And if I play the hi-hat here
I get one hi-hat.
So I’ll go ahead and paste
that hi-hat in
for my cymbal sound.
Now, just like I can
define variables
to represent sounds
from the sound library,
I can also define
variables to represent
beat strings.
So I'll go ahead
and do that now
and so I'll define a beat.
I'll call it “beat1.”
And as you may remember
our stings for beat strings
are usually 16 characters long.
That's 16 sixteenth notes
which make up
one full measure of music.
And if you don't know
how to get started
building a beat string,
you can just almost
randomly start using
zeros and ones—I'm sorry—
zeros and minuses
and plus signs and then
listen to what happens
and change it little by little
until you arrive
at a rhythm that you want.
Here's a rhythm
that I came up with
through that technique
that I like.
So this goes like this:
♪ tu-ta tu-taaa tu-ta ta ta ♫
And then, here's another
beat string that I came up with.
♪ ta ta tu-tu-tu ta-ta-ta ♫
So I've defined my sounds
and I've defined
my beat strings as variables.
Let's go ahead and use
the makeBeat() function now.
So the first argument
to makeBeat() is the sound
I want to use,
so I'll use synth.
The second argument
is the track, so I'll put
this on track one.
The third argument
is the measure,
so I'll have to start
at measure one.
And the final argument
is the beat string, so I'll use
the beat string named beat1.
And I forgot some semi-colons
up there as well.
I'll add those back in.
And then I can go ahead
and press Run.
And I can listen
to my beat string.
[synth chords]
Now, this only plays
for one measure.
If I wanted this to play
more than one time—
if I wanted it to repeat—
the easiest way to do that
is with the “for” loop.
So for “var,”
measure equals 1,
measure is less than 4,
measure plus plus,
I can call that
makeBeat() function.
So measure will start
by being set to 1,
our first loop iteration.
Then it will be 2,
and then it will be 3,
and when it gets to 4,
the loop will stop.
And each time we'll call
makeBeat() with synth
on track one.
Now, instead of it being
measure 1 every time,
I want it to be measure,
measure.
So it will put it at measure 1
the first time,
and measure 2
the second time,
and measure 3
the third time we iterate
through the “for” loop.
And we'll always use
the same beat string.
So if we run that now,
we can see that it
repeats measure 1
and measure 2
and measure 3.
[synth chords]
Now, inside of the same
“for” loop, I can add
a second makeBeat()
call to put the cymbal
rhythm onto track two.
So if my sound
is cymbal now,
my track is two,
and measure is still
my measure counter,
and the beat string
will be beat two
instead of beat one.
And I can go ahead
and run that,
and I can hear the results.
[synth chords and hi-hats]